one of the things that is critical to
getting a high writing score in
toefl is using a variety of sentence
structures
if you don't show the examiners a wide
range
you'll get a low score even if
everything else is
perfect and this will bring down your
overall writing score
my name is jay and in this lesson we're
going to talk about
sentences i'm going to show you what a
sentence is
i'm going to show you the four sentence
types and then we're going to look at
five ways that you can vary your
sentences using
different sentence starters let's get
cracking
five ways to start your sentences in
toefl
writing so let's compare
all four sentence types in english there
are only four of them
and let's put them in the context of a
really boring
essay topic like tax
so we have simple sentences subject
verb object like employees
pay tax then there are
compound sentences which means that you
join
two simple sentences together using a
conjunction
employees pay tax because
they earn money then there are
complex sentences and these ones are
important to include
in your essay they include a subject
verb
object plus another sentence
part like even if they don't want to
as in employees pay tax even if they
don't want to
finally we've got the most complicated
sentence type of all the
compound complex sentence which is a big
combination
of all the sentences together like
employees pay
tax because they earn money even if they
don't want to
cool i think now you have the
foundations you need to begin
learning how to make really stylish
sentences
sentences that you can use in your love
letters
or in your toefl essays let's take a
look at sentence starter number one
start your sentence with a verb in
otherwise known as a gerund you know all
the verbi kind of words that have an
ing ending like taking
or going or
racketeering well you can start your
simple compound complex or compound
complex sentences
using one of these words let me show you
how
paying tax is unavoidable in many
countries
here we have a simple sentence where
paying
tax is playing the role of the subject
or sentence topic and the first word is
an
ing word paying if we were to make it a
compound
sentence you could simply add one of
those conjunctions to join
another complete sentence like
paying tax is unavoidable in many
countries
because governments monitor individuals
closely
and if we were to write a complex
sentence
we could say although some people don't
want to
paying tax is unavoidable
here the ing word paying
or the subject paying tax is playing the
role of the
sentence subject pretty cool huh
and if we look at the compound complex
sentence we can see
although some people don't want to
paying tax
is unavoidable in many countries because
governments monitor
individuals closely this is a nice
sentence it's rich it's long it's
accurate and if you were to write a few
of those types of sentences
into your essay it'll help you quite a
lot
let's look at sentence starter number
two
start your sentence with a prepositional
phrase
hey where's my pen it's probably on the
floor
ah no it's not it's right here in my
pocket okay i'm just mucking around but
by
prepositional phrase i'm referring to
words like
on or in or at or away you know the ones
so let's look at that simple sentence we
wrote before
paying tax is unavoidable in many
countries
see the prepositional phrase in many
they always start with a preposition
let's pick it up and move it to the
start of the
sentence and pop a little comma after it
in many countries paying tax is
unavoidable
voila so we've started a sentence with a
prepositional phrase
pretty neat hey and that ing word is
still playing the role of the subject or
the topic of the sentence
let's look at another one start your
sentence with an
adverb adverbs are those words that
usually have an
l y ending like occasionally
or honestly or luckily
so let's start a sentence about tax
using the adverb interestingly
interestingly some people believe that
everyone should pay the same amount of
tax no matter what their income level
is what the adverb has done here is show
my opinion about the idea in this
sentence
i think what some people believe about
text is
interesting i could also write
concerningly
or worryingly etc
cool that's adverbs now let's look at
starting a sentence with a subordinating
conjunction
a what you ask that's right
start your sentence with a subordinating
conjunction
subordinating conjunctions is a crazy
term for connecting words let's take a
look at some of them
these words can show comparison like
whereas or whether or concession
like although or despite
a condition unless or in case
time after or before
a reason because or so that
so if we begin a sentence with one of
these subordinating conjunctions we
could write
despite taxes being somewhat burdensome
they do allow
governments to distribute money more
evenly
i really do encourage you to practice
writing sentences
using these subordinating conjunctions
as they
immediately create complex sentences
which are important for your score
okay let's look at one final sentence
starter
start your sentence with a pronoun
so in your essay you are allowed to use
personal pronouns like i me or my
you don't want to overdo it but the
essay does want to know your position
or your opinion and to do that sometimes
you must refer to yourself
here's how you should do it in a
sentence my opinion is that
taxes are an essential part of any
functional society
that was an easy one now of course there
are many
different ways to start sentences and we
just looked at
five of them the critical thing to
remember on test day is that you need to
vary your sentence structures so you
need to start your sentences differently
you need to have a variety of simple
compound
complex and compound complex sentences
you can even throw in a question or a
conditional if sentence
if you want but you also need to make
sure your sentences
are grammatically accurate so it's a bit
of a balancing act
if you find any of this in any way
confusing then come along to our live
classes at
e2language.com where our expert teachers
will lead you through test practice
and of course you can get writing
feedback from them as well
thank you very much for watching i'll
see you soon